# Metabolic consequences of sex-reversal in two lizard species: a test of the like genotype and like phenotype hypotheses
Vertebrate sex is typically determined genetically, but in many ectotherms sex can be determined by genes (Genetic Sex Determination: GSD), temperature (Temperature-dependent Sex Determination: TSD), or interactions between genes and temperature during development. Temperature dependent sex determination may involve GSD systems with either male or female heterogamety (XX/XY or ZZ/ZW). In either case, temperature overrides chromosomal sex determination to cause a mismatch between genetic sex and phenotypic sex (sex-reversal). Evolutionary transitions in sex determination can occur rapidly when selection favours the reversed sex over their concordant phenotypic sex or when frequency-dependent selection eliminates heterogametic individuals from populations. To investigate the consequences of sex-reversal on offspring fitness, we measured two energy-driven traits often linked to fitness (metabolism and growth rate) and 6-month survival in two species of reptile with different patterns of temperature-induced sex-reversal. Male sex-reversal occurs in Bassiana duperreyi when chromosomal females (female XX) develop male phenotypes (maleSR XX), while female sex-reversal occurs in Pogona vitticeps when chromosomal males (male ZZ) develop female phenotypes (femaleSR ZZ). We show, for B. duperreyi, metabolism in maleSR XX was like that of male XY, that is, reflective of phenotypic sex and lower than genotypic sex. In contrast, for P. vitticeps, femaleSR ZZ metabolism was intermediate between male ZZ and female ZW metabolic rate. While we find weak evidence that sex-reversal conveys a fitness advantage in either species, energetic processes may still constrain the distribution of sex-reversal in nature.

# Analysis - metadata
The script "sexreversal.analysis.R" has all the code for the BRMS models for each species and the trait being measured (metabolism, growth), with their appropriate checks. Also there you'll find analysis for survivorship in this script. Headings will provide detail of code that follows. Information has been saved for each final analysis which was then used in the .rmd file.


# Rmd file
rmd file has both methods, results, and tables as appeared in the text. Code chunks detail analysis that is being conducted for each section. 
